FLopen 2020
Packet A: Prune Tracy history player retirement fund
Edited by: Taylor Harvey and Jonathen Settle
Written by: Mateo Javier Acosta, Mike Bentley, Nicholas Dai, Anthony Delgado, William Grossman, Shawn
Jarrard, Zachary Knecht, Leo Law, Lalit Maharjan, Tracy Mirkin, Khanh Nguyen, Grant Peet, Ani Perumalla, Jason
Zappulla, and the editors
Tossups
1. The tips of identical, cylindrical pores respond faster than surfaces deeper in the pores in the model of
these components created by Robert de Levie. Hydrous ruthenium oxide nanoparticles and activated
microwave-expanded graphite oxide are state-of-the-art materials for these components. Transparent films of
indium tin oxide are used as these components in opto·electronic devices. Electron transfer reactions between
these components and ions adsorbed onto them generate (*) pseudo·capacitance. The potential near these
components falls off at first linearly and then exponentially in Stern’s modification of the Gouy–Chapman model.
One of these components coated with platinum black is used to define the standard reduction potential. For 10
points, redox reactions occur at what components of galvanic cells?
ANSWER: electrodes [accept anodes; accept cathodes; prompt on metals; prompt on charged surfaces; prompt on
electric double layer by asking “what component does the double layer form on?”]
<Chemistry, JS>
2. In a story written in this language, a boy guarding his brother crushed by debris is told that he need not
guard him at night, since the rats that would eat him are asleep. A traumatic dream featuring a xylophone
made of bones haunts a soldier in a play written in this language, The Man Outside. A story in this language
ends with its narrator whispering the word “milk” to a fireman. After seeing a chalkboard on which he wrote
the title phrase in seven scripts, a soldier on a stretcher in that story in this language realizes he’s missing
three of his limbs. The story (*) “Stranger, Bear Word to the Spartans We…” was written in this language by the
author of a novel in which a “lamb” punishes the “buffaloes” by orchestrating the destruction of St. Anthony’s
Abbey. For 10 points, what language’s “rubble-literature” was championed by writers like the author of Billiards at
Half-Past Nine, Heinrich Böll?
ANSWER: German [or Deutsch] (The story in the first line is “Nachts schlafen die Ratten doch” by Wolfgang
Borchert, the author of The Man Outside.)
<Other Literature, AP>
3. A scrapped musical based on this man’s life was written by Maury Yeston but was reworked into a concept
album featuring Dionne Warwick and Plácido Domingo that spawned the hit “Till I Loved You” for Jennifer
Rush. An art banker attempts to use the skull of this man to make a clone of him in an opera by Michael
Nyman. A late-romantic piano suite named for this man includes the movements “The Compliments” and
“The (*) Maiden and the Nightingale.” Stellan Skarsgård played this man in the final film directed by
Miloš (“mi-LOSH”) Forman, which is named for his “ghosts.” Enrique Granados wrote a suite of pieces named for
this man, who is the subject of a Menotti opera about this man’s relationship with María Cayetana de Silva, whom
he painted as The Black Duchess. For 10 points, name this painter of Nude Maja and The Black Paintings.
ANSWER: Francisco José de Goya y Lucientes [accept Facing Goya; accept Goya’s Ghosts; accept Goyescas]
<Other Academic, TH>
4. After being moved from a castle to this island, physical trainer Joseph Pilates (“puh-la-teez”) developed his
namesake exercise method. For a time, Kurt Schwitters lived on this island in a Hutchinson Square location
that became known as “the artist’s camp.” Geoff Duke set several world records on a racetrack on this island
that passes through Ramsey. During Midsummer Court, people assemble in this island’s village of St. John’s
to listen to new acts passed by the (*) Tynwald, this island’s parliament. A smaller island off this island’s southern
coast is known as its “calf.” Hundreds have died in this island’s ultra-dangerous motorcycle race, the Tourist
Trophy. A red background appears on the idiosyncratic flag of this island, which features a triskelion made up of
three joined legs. Douglas is the capital of, for 10 points, what small island in the Irish Sea that names a breed of
short tailed cats?
ANSWER: Isle of Man [or Ellan Vannin; accept Manx or Manx cats]
<Geography, TH>
5. Andy Clark’s so-called meta version of this problem asks whether or not this is a problem at all, while a
Francis Kammerer paper asks why the illusionism answer to this problem is unacceptable. Uriah Kreigler
has subdivided this problem into the sub-problems of qualitative immediacy and indescribability. A paper by
Ned Block referencing a Star Trek episode imagines a creature that is functionally the same as humans but
physically distinct in extending this problem to account for (*) multiple realizability. New mysterianism is the
position that this problem cannot be solved by humans. Solving this problem is sometimes analogized to “bridging”
the explanatory gap. David Chalmers named this problem, which asks why brain events are accompanied by
phenomenal qualia. For 10 points, name this problem from the philosophy of mind contrasted with the “easy
problem.”
ANSWER: the hard problem of consciousness [accept the harder problem of consciousness; prompt on qualia;
prompt on the problem of consciousness; prompt on multiple realizability until mentioned]
<Philosophy, TH>
6. Jack Jenney plays a brief trombone solo on a song recorded by this bandleader that begins with trumpeter
Billy Butterfield playing a rising chromatic C-sharp, D, D-sharp, before the whole band enters as he slides to
E. Helen Forrest scored two number one hits with “They Say” and “All the Things You Are” while singing
with this musician’s band. This bandleader’s odd choices of instrumentation include using only a string
quartet and rhythm section in his “Interlude in B-flat” and using a (*) harpsichord instead of a piano for
“Summit Ridge Drive” which he recorded with his Gramercy Five. This musician, who was married eight times, had
his biggest hit in 1938 with a version of a Cole Porter song inspired by a West Indian dance. For 10 points, name
this swing-era big band clarinetist and rival of Benny Goodman who had hits with “Stardust” and “Begin the
Beguine” (“bay-GEEN”).
ANSWER: Artie Shaw [accept Arthur Jacob Arshawsky; accept Art Shaw]
<Other Arts: Auditory, TH>
7. In 17th-century England, this profession was held by women such as the “Widow Wyncke” (“wink”) and
Susan Reeve Lyon, who was prosecuted for aiding the Dutchman Gerard Boate. After many prosecutions for
inadequate politeness by a rival organization, London’s “Worshipful Society” of this profession finally gained
legitimacy in 1703’s Rose Case. In 1595, Anthony Chute accused people in this profession of selling
low-quality “mingle mangle” due to their tendency to hoard tobacco imports. An outdated (*) measurement
system named for this profession divides a twelve-ounce pound into drams, scruples, and grains. Liquid-filled bulbs
of glass, or “show globes,” were a historical symbol of this profession, whose members used a mortar and pestle to
form salves, poultices, and other remedies. For 10 points, members of what antiquated profession prepared and sold
forms of medicine?
ANSWER: apothecaries [accept word forms; prompt on pharmacists; prompt on druggists; prompt on chemists;
prompt on physicians or medics, as apothecaries occasionally provided medical services]
<Post-500 European History, TM>
8. The Charter 97 declaration denounced this leader, who has promoted the China-funded Big Stone
industrial park in his capital. In February 2020, this leader threatened to siphon oil from the “Friendship”
pipeline, which diverges into two tracts in the south of his country. At a summit, this leader was handed
historic maps to influence his policies concerning the Suwałki (“soo-VOW-kee”) Corridor, which has its
southeastern terminus in his country. In 2009, a larger ally banned (*) dairy imported from this leader’s country
in the so-called “Milk War.” When asked about COVID-19 infection rates while dressed in ice hockey gear, this
leader responded “there is no virus here” and has recommended hand washing with vodka. Security services loyal to
this leader have attacked protestors advocating for exiled opposition leader Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya
(“svet-LAH-nuh tee-kuh-NOV-sky-uh”). For 10 points, name this current embattled president of Belarus.
ANSWER: Alexander Lukashenko [or Alexander Grigoryevich Lukashenko; or Alyaksandr Ryhoravich
Lukashenka]
<Current Events, TH>
9. In a story by this author, while dancing with a Harvard French professor, a girl asks about “dangerous
Dan McGrew” and admits she sees all people as either canine or feline. In another story by this author, a
woman retrieves a morbid letter from the title object, which then appears to grow to massive size trapping
the world under its canopy. That title (*) Art Nouveau object of a story by this author causes a series of
misfortunes for Evelyn Piper by revealing her affair and causing her daughter to lose her hand. In a story by this
author, Sally Carrol resolves to return home to the south after being abandoned by her northern beau Harry and
nearly freezing to death in the title structure. For 10 points, name this author who included the stories “The
Cut-Glass Bowl” and “The Ice Palace” in his collection Flappers and Philosophers, which he published the same
year as This Side of Paradise.
ANSWER: F. Scott Fitzgerald [accept Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald]
<Short Fiction, TH>
10. A scholar working in this country advocated updating rather than ignoring halakha in books like Judaism
as a Civilization and New Haggadah. Alfred Moses and Morris Lichtenstein founded a movement in this
country that syncretizes New Thought conceptions of God as celestial energy with Hebrew scripture. The
influential B’nai Yeshurun congregation in this country promoted the Zionist cause with their publication
Israelite. In this country, Avi Weiss founded a movement that controversially ordains (*) women; that
movement is Open Orthodoxy. Mordecai Kaplan founded Reconstructionist Judaism while living in this country. In
the 1820s the center of the Reform Movement moved from Germany to this country. The largest city in this country
is home to Yeshiva University. For 10 points, name this Western Hemisphere country that contains over half of the
world’s Jews.
ANSWER: United States of America [or USA; or America]
<Religion, TH>
11. Enabling secondary expansion at the end of the read-in phase of this tool is useful when constructing
variable names from automatic variables. In the Autotools suite, the configure script uses a file with a
“.in” (“dot-in”) extension to generate this tool’s files. The .PHONY (“dot-phony”) keyword tells this tool that
certain names do not refer to actual files. As in SQL, this tool’s files use the percent sign to enable wildcard
matching. The DESTDIR (“dest-dir”) variable allows this tool to perform staged installs. Special targets used
by this tool include check, which runs tests, and (*) clean, which removes executables and object files. The
compiler and its flags are specified to this tool using the CC and CFLAGS (“C-flags”) variables, respectively.
Recipes for how to compile each target are specified in this tool’s namesake files. For 10 points, name this tool used
to build software on Unix systems.
ANSWER: make [accept makefiles; accept GNU make; accept BSD make; accept nmake; accept automake;
accept CMake]
<Other Science: Computer Science, JS>
12. A painter from this family painted Ottavio Strada receiving a cornucopia and showed herself holding
some sheet music while wearing a white dress in a self portrait. Another member of this family painted
hundreds of tightly packed soldiers aboard ships in the Battle of Salvore and showed two cherubim looking on
in his Tancred Baptizing Clorinda. The Scuola Grande di San Rocco contains many paintings by artists from
this family, including a ceiling painting of The (*) Miracle of the Bronze Serpent. A painter from this family
depicted an upside down Saint Mark intervening to save a man from execution. That artist from this family showed
the infant Hercules against the star-spewing breast of Juno in The Origin of the Milky Way. For 10 points, name this
family of Venetian Mannerist painters whose patriarch painted The Miracle of the Slave and a diagonal Last Supper.
ANSWER: Tintoretto [or Jacopo Robusti; accept Domenico Robusti or Domenico Tintoretto; accept Marietta
Robusti; accept Tintoretta]
<Painting/Sculpture, TH>
13. A bizarre passage of a novel by this author makes a series of prophecies of the popularity of authors in the
future, such as “Paul Éluard shall appeal to the masses in the year 2101.” In a novel by this author, a
paranoid professor makes a series of geometric drawings featuring the names of philosophers at vertices and
hangs a copy of Euclid’s Elements from a clothes line. In a novel by this author, the narrator hides in a
bathroom stall for thirteen days during a fictionalization of the (*) Tlatelolco (“t’LAH-tel-OHL-coh”) Massacre.
This author wrote about the investigative journalist Oscar Fate in a five part novel whose notorious fourth section
details the aftermath of hundreds of murders in gory detail. The reclusive author Archimboldi is discovered to
actually be Hans Reiter in a novel by, for 10 points, what author of Amulet who wrote about the investigation of the
murders of women in Santa Teresa in 2666?
ANSWER: Roberto Bolaño [or Roberto Bolaño Ávalos]
<Long Fiction, WG>
14. In the 1950s, Lee Mortimer often listed the name and locations of these places in his Daily Mirror column.
After being arrested at one of these places, Diego Viñales impaled himself at a police station while trying to
escape. Some 750 of these places were included in an Address Book published by Bob Damron. Historian
David Carter documented how the lights in these places were often changed from blue to white to signal
danger. One of these places controlled by (*) mobster “Fat Tony” Lauria technically operated as a membership
organization to skirt laws making it illegal to serve its clientele. Marsha P. Johnson was in the vanguard at an
incident outside one of these locations. The Village Voice was the only paper to provide in-depth coverage on a raid
on one of these places commemorated a year later in the first Pride March. For 10 points, name these businesses that
include the Stonewall Inn.
ANSWER: gay bar [or gay club; or gay-friendly restaurant; or lesbian bar; accept any answer involving a bar,
nightclub, inn, restaurant or establishment catering to the LGBTQIA+ community; prompt on bars or night clubs]
<US History, MB>
15. Pyrroline tautomerization between delta-2 and delta-1 isoforms is thought to cause the biphasic nature of
the hydrolysis of some of these molecules derived from thi·ena·mycin. These molecules are broken down
through the attack of a zinc-stabilized hydroxide by metallo·enzymes such as VIM and IMP. Enzymes in
classes A, C, and D acylate these molecules in a manner similar to serine proteases. The aforementioned
metallo·enzymes that act on these molecules are in Class B of the (*) Ambler classification. Carbapenems and
penems are forms of these molecules that differ in the structure of their second ring. Flucloxacillin, sold under the
brand name Flopen, is one of these drugs that include cephalosporins. For 10 points, what drugs that contain four
membered cyclic amides include methicillin and penicillin?
ANSWER: beta-lactams [accept cephalosporins; accept monobactams; accept penicillins before “penicillin”;
accept penams; accept carbapenems before “carbapenems”; prompt on antibiotics; prompt on drugs]
<Biology, JS>
16. An ancient geographer from this city described all known lands clockwise from Gibraltar in his Periodos
ges. A genre of ancient erotic tale named for this city was the main literary output of its resident Aristides.
The Pergamon Museum holds the propylon that once stood in front of the market of this city. The historian
Hecataeus was from this city, as was the first Greek to lay out broad avenues orthogonally intersected by side
streets; that (*) “father of urban planning” from this city is Hippodamus. Socrates claimed a woman born in this
non-Athens city was the true writer of a funeral oration given during the Peloponnesian War. A member of the
Seven Sages from this city made bank by using astronomical knowledge to capitalize on an olive oil investment and
passed down his philosophical teachings to Anaximander. For 10 points, name this Ionian city-state, the birthplace
of Aspasia and Thales.
ANSWER: Miletus
<Ancient History, LM>
17. A paper by Barkai et al. uses samples from the Qesem (“cah-sim”) site to posit that the adoption of this
technology was an essential adaptation for post-Acheulian settlers in the Levant. A Richard Wrangham book
titled for this technology suggests that its adoption led to a “primitive protection racket” within pair bonding.
Silcrete stone samples from the Klipdrift Shelter site suggest that this technology was used by the Stillbay
culture. The Schöningen Spears are import artifacts used in tracing the development of this technology for (*)
improving tool design. The earliest evidence of this technology comes from the Wonderwerk Cave site in South
Africa and suggests it was first used about one million years ago. The hand drill and bow drill were widely-used
tools used for producing this thing. For 10 points, the use of what prehistoric technology is attested by flint and
charred animal remains?
ANSWER: making fire [accept cooking food; accept controlled use of fire; accept fire-hardening; accept heating or
heat treatment; accept burning; prompt on material or wood hardening; reject “metal” or “metalworking” or any
similar answers]
<Social Science: Anthropology/Sociology, TH>
18. An inhomogeneous Helmholtz equation is solved to calculate quantities near these things in Durbin’s
elliptic relaxation technique, and his v2f model incorporates anisotropies near them without using their
namesake functions. Van Driest damping functions are required to correctly simulate near these things. Some
attempts to model the effects of these things increase the grid line resolution normal to them beyond that
normally required for direct numerical simulation. Unlike the k-epsilon model, the k-omega model is
accurate near these things. In a region close to these things, the (*) von Kármán constant appears in the log-law
for the velocity profile. Viscous fluids have zero velocity relative to one of these things when assuming the no-slip
condition. For 10 points, viscous forces dominate over inertial forces in a thin region near what surfaces surrounding
a fluid?
ANSWER: walls [accept fluid boundary or fluid boundaries; accept boundary layer; accept wall effects; accept
wall functions; prompt on solid by asking “what is the solid’s relation to the fluid?”]
<Physics, JS>
19. Paul Muldoon’s translation of this poem from his collection Maggot is prefaced with a quote from BBC
News noting how plastic cigarette lighters resemble “the staple food of squid.” This poem, which was inspired
by an incident observed on a 1841 trip to Réunion (“RAY-oon-YOHN”), describes the title figure “On high
companionable pinion where / Their vessel glides upon the bitter deeps.” In Richard Wilbur’s translation, a
sailor in this poem “hobbling, (*) mocks [the] trammeled pace” of the title creature, while another “pokes a
pipestem into his beak.” The last stanza of this poem notes that the poet is like the title bird, a “prince of the clouds”
who can’t walk because of the “weight of his wings.” For 10 points, name this second poem in Les Fleurs du mal, a
Charles Baudelaire poem named for a large-winged sea bird.
ANSWER: “The Albatross” [or “L’Albatros”]
<Poetry, TH>
20. The fact that this leader’s personal documents were destroyed after his death may indicate that he won his
case against Betancur for the Marquisate (“MAR-kwih-zit”) of Oropesa. In an attempt to play both sides,
Juan Manuel de Moscoso y Peralta delayed this leader’s excommunication. Frustrated that four horses had
failed to tear this leader apart, José Antonio de Areche ordered his beheading, after which Katari and this
leader’s cousin Diego took up his mantle. Shortly after hanging Antonio de Arriaga, this leader and his forces
burned their opponents alive inside a church during the Battle of (*) Sangarará. The extortionate repartimiento
de mercancías inspired this leader’s 1780 rebellion, which was based out of Vilcabamba. An Indigenous rebellion in
Peru was led by, for 10 points, what leader who claimed to descend from the last Incan monarch?
ANSWER: Túpac Amaru II [or José Gabriel Condorcanqui Noguera; prompt on Túpac; prompt on Amaru]
<Post-500 World History, GP>
21. Deutsche Grammophone-winner Mirga Gražinytė-Tyla (“MEER-guh grah-zhi-NEE-tay TEE-lah”)
conducted a 2020 live recording of an orchestral piece by this non-Polish composer that includes a “dance of
death” motif in its Dies Irae second movement. Julian Bream edited the guitar part for this composer’s
setting of Arthur Waley translations, his Songs from the Chinese. This composer was commissioned by the
Japanese government to write a piece for the 2600-year anniversary of the Mikado, resulting in his (*)
Sinfonia da Requiem. This composer used a C-F-sharp tritone motif in a piece that concludes with an eight part
choral canon beginning “in paradisum deducant.” That piece by this composer was commissioned for the new
Coventry Cathedral and set Latin text alongside poems like “Strange Meeting.” For 10 points, name this English
composer who used Wilfred Owen poems in his War Requiem.
ANSWER: Benjamin Britten [accept Edward Benjamin Britten, Baron Britten]
<Classical Music, TH>
22. A self-reporting stress index named for this practice was developed by Richard Abidin. University of
Wisconsin researcher Patrica Kuhl is best known for studying the unique intonations of people engaging in
this practice in a supposedly universal “-ese” (“ease”) named for it. Researchers of this practice generally
grade styles of it on axes of responsiveness and demandingness. Praise, specificity, and physical (*) touch are
the three steps to the Kazdin Method of this practice, which was developed by its namesake at a Yale research center
devoted to it. Diana Baumrind devised the classical trichotomy of permissive, authoritarian, and authoritative styles
of the practice, practitioners of which should strive to be “good enough” according to Donald Winnicott. For 10
points, name this familial practice that was discussed in a series of best-selling books by Dr. Benjamin Spock.
ANSWER: parenting [accept child care, child rearing, raising kids, or synonyms; accept talking or speaking to
children; accept mothering or fathering; accept being a mother or father] (The second clue refers to the concept of
“motherese.”)
<Social Science: Sociology/Anthropology, TH>
Bonuses
1. In a tense scene in this film, the protagonist starts coughing uncontrollably after driving behind a smoke-emitting
truck and has to pull into a parking garage to recover. For 10 points each:
[h] Name this Todd Haynes film centering on Carol, a California housewife played by Julianne Moore who attempts
to recover from a mysterious environmental illness at the cult-like Wrenwood Center.
ANSWER: Safe
[e] Another film set in the 1980s San Fernando Valley and starring Julianne Moore is Boogie Nights, an early film
by this director of Magnolia and The Master.
ANSWER: Paul Thomas Anderson
[m] Todd Haynes also directed Julianne Moore in I’m Not There, an experimental biopic about this man. At the
beginning of a black and white D. A. Pennebaker documentary, this man stares at the camera as he drops cards
containing song lyrics to the ground.
ANSWER: Bob Dylan [or Robert Allen Zimmerman] (The film is Dont Look Back.)
<Other Arts: Film, TH>
2. The autobiographies of Peter Cartwright detail his time working in this specific job in Kentucky and Illinois. For
10 points each:
[h] Name this specific job undertaken by men like Francis Asbury and William Brownlow. Men were assigned to
specific routes for this job at Annual Meetings that followed the 1784 Christmas Conference.
ANSWER: circuit riders [accept traveling or itinerant Methodist preachers or clergy; prompt on priests, clergy,
preacher, revivalists or missionaries]
[e] Circuit riders were instrumental in the explosion of Methodism during this religious revivalist period that lasted
for much of the first half of the 19th century. Charles Finney preached in the burned-over district of New York
during this period.
ANSWER: Second Great Awakening [prompt on Great Awakening]
[m] The Cavalry of Christ were a group of circuit rider-like itinerant Catholic priests who largely prozeletized in the
land near this river. The Chamizal dispute arose because of changes in the flow of this river.
ANSWER: Rio Grande [accept Río Bravo del Norte]
<US History, TH>
3. This error is removed by performing subsystem calculations using ghost atoms, but doing so can overestimate it
by introducing artificial repulsions. For 10 points each:
[h] Name this error dealt with by the counterpoise method of Boys and Bernardi. This error and a similarly named
“incompleteness” error have opposite effects on the interaction energy.
ANSWER: basis set superposition error [or BSSE] (The other error is basis set incompletion error.)
[e] Corrections for BSSE must be applied in addition to correcting for this force when modeling noncovalent
interactions. This attractive force occurs due to the formation of instantaneous dipoles.
ANSWER: London dispersion force [accept either underlined portion; or LDF; prompt on van der Waals forces]
[m] Approaches that are “post” this method are required to accurately model dispersion since it arises from electron
correlation. This method solves the Schrödinger equation by replacing an N electron wave function by a single
Slater determinant.
ANSWER: Hartree–Fock method [or HF method]
<Chemistry, JS>
4. An extended metaphor in a sonnet compares this concept to a “wayward girl” who “will not speak to those / Who
have not learnt to be content without her.” For 10 points each:
[m] Name this concept that also partially titles a 14th-century dream poem in which the speaker is guided through a
glass palace by an eagle and muses about the poet’s ability to bestow this onto their subjects.
ANSWER: fame [accept “On Fame”; accept The House of Fame]
[e] “On Fame” is a sonnet by this Romantic poet who meditated on his imminent death in “When I Have Fears That
I May Cease to Be.” He also wrote “Bright Star.”
ANSWER: John Keats
[h] This poetess imagined fame as a “new-born lamb” and a “blot upon the night” in her poem “Fame.” This early
modernist wrote “The Farmer’s Bride” and “In Nunhead Cemetery.”
ANSWER: Charlotte Mew [or Charlotte Mary Mew]
<Poetry, TH>
5. Husein Rofe spread this spiritual movement to the U.K., where it was further popularized by the British army
translator and Gurdjieff follower John Bennett. For 10 points each:
[h] Name this Indonesian spiritual tradition, which focuses on oracular “openings” called latihans. Though the name
of this tradition is similar to that of its founder, it is actually an acronym of dharma and two other terms.
ANSWER: Subud [or Susila Budhi Dharma]
[e] Though practitioners of Subud may be part of any religion, they mostly belong to this majority religion of
Indonesia.
ANSWER: Islam [accept being Muslim]
[m] Subud’s founder, Pak Subuh, has a name referring to this time period. The fajr prayer is performed at this time.
ANSWER: dawn [or sunrise; or daybreak; prompt on morning]
<Religion, TH>
6. Answer the following about the work of the literary critic Frank Kermode, for 10 points each:
[e] A 1975 monograph by Kermode is titled for this type of well-regarded book, also discussed in an Italo Calvino
essay titled Why Read [these books]? Penguin publishes a series of these books with an iconic black, white, and
orange bottom border.
ANSWER: classics [accept The Classic; accept Why Read the Classics?; accept Penguin Classics]
[m] Kermode discusses notions of plot finality in his influential 1967 study with this name. This phrase also titles a
Julian Barnes novel in which Tony investigates the suicide of his friend Adrian.
ANSWER: The Sense of an Ending: Studies in the Theory of Fiction
[h] Kermode’s use of hermeneutics anticipated this movement within literary criticism championed by Norman
Holland and Stanley Fish. Partisans of this movement with a two-word, hyphenated name emphasize the thoughts
and emotions of the audience of a text rather than the intent of the author or the text itself.
ANSWER: reader-response criticism
<Other Literature, TH>
7. This reflex and the ATNR are common diagnostic tools for child neurologists. For 10 points each:
[h] Name this reflex that is elicited by elevating an infant’s head to thirty degrees, and then suddenly dropping it to
level. This reflex is characterized by extension, abduction, and then adduction of the upper limbs, usually followed
by crying.
ANSWER: Moro reflex [prompt on startle reflex]
[m] Prolonged retention of the Moro reflex is a sign of the spastic type of this class of movement disorders. A
commando crawl is the first sign of this class of disorders in children, and gait abnormalities indicative of it include
a semi-circle-like gait and scissor gait.
ANSWER: cerebral palsy [or CP]
[e] A weak Moro reflex is displayed in infants who underwent this sort of birth. This sort of birth is defined as a
birth that occurs before 37 weeks.
ANSWER: premature birth [accept preterm birth]
<Biology, TH>
8. A 1991 study by Alan Blinder found that this quantity was changed less than twice a year by over half of the
firms surveyed. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this quantity believed to be “sticky” in the short run due to a breakdown of the classical dichotomy. This
quantity appears on the y-axis of demand curves.
ANSWER: prices [accept price of a good or service]
[h] Blinder’s study found that the leading cause of price stickiness among surveyed firms was an example of this
scenario in which firms fail to reach the most desirable equilibrium through a lack of communication.
ANSWER: coordination failure
[m] Many New Keynesians endorse this model to explain coordination failure. In this model developed by a 2010
Nobel laureate, traders in a search economy are unable to find exchange partners instantaneously.
ANSWER: Diamond coconut model [prompt on partial answer]
<Social Science: Economics, WG>
9. Like the older Wing Chun style, this style of martial arts prominently used a simultaneous push and strike called
the pak sao. For 10 points each:
[h] Name this hybrid martial arts style developed beginning in 1967 by a man who rejected the formalist style of his
teacher Ip Man in favor of using the most effective techniques from diverse styles like Muay Tahi and jiu-jitsu. This
style is a predecessor to contemporary mixed martial arts.
ANSWER: Jeet Kune Do [or JKD; accept jiht kyùhn douh accept the Way of the Intercepting Fist; accept, but
DO NOT REVEAL, Jun Fan Jeet Kune Do]
[e] Jeet Kune Do was created by this Hong Kong-American martial artist and actor who starred in Fist of Fury and
Enter the Dragon before dying at age 32.
ANSWER: Bruce Lee [or Lee Jun-fan]
[m] Jeet Kune Do also draws on this martial art and Olympic event created by Jigoro Kano. Anton Geesink and Ilias
Iliadis were masters of this martial art.
ANSWER: judo [accept the gentle way]
<Other Academic, TH>
10. An event in this year occurred when a market disturbance halted all automated trading momentarily, allowing
firms offering stub quotes to buy shares of Apple at 75 cents. For 10 points each:
[H] Give this year in which a May 6th “flash crash” caused by errors in high-frequency trading algorithms led to a
one trillion dollar loss that rebounded after only 38 minutes. The term “fragile liquidity” was coined during the
analysis of the “flash crash” of this year.
ANSWER: 2010 [accept 2010 flash crash]
[e] Algorithmic bugs and exploits have resulted in the liquidation of Mt. Gox and Youbit, which were exchanges for
these assets. In 2016, a hacker made off with fifty million dollars in Ethereum, one of these assets.
ANSWER: cryptocurrency [prompt on digital currency; anti-prompt on Bitcoin]
[m] This pseudonym was used by the author or authors of the white paper that introduced Bitcoin, the first
cryptocurrency with a public ledger. Leading candidates for the identity of the user of this pseudonym include Hal
Finney and Nick Szaba.
ANSWER: Satoshi Nakamoto [accept either underlined part]
<Commonwealth/International History, TH>
11. This essay defends the view that there exists “high art” and “low art,” which are represented by the two title
concepts. For 10 points each:
[m] Name this essay that theorizes that a Russian peasant would prefer paintings by Ilya Repin over Pablo Picasso,
since the former’s paintings “tell a story” while the latter’s are “austere and barren.”
ANSWER: “Avant-Garde and Kitsch” (by Clement Greenberg)
[e] For Clement Greenberg, the Avant-Garde was represented in his time by this artistic movement whose
practitioners included Mark Rothko and Jackson Pollock.
ANSWER: abstract expressionism [prompt on partial answer; accept drip painting; accept color field painting]
[h] The rise of movements like abstract expressionism challenged this critic’s notion that the history of Western art
was the history of the search for more vivid renderings of reality. This art historian formulated his concept of
“schemata” in Art and Illusion and wrote the Eurocentric survey The Story of Art.
ANSWER: Ernst Gombrich [or Sir Ernst Hans Josef Gombrich]
<Painting/Sculpture, SJ>
12. Developed independently by Tikhonov and Cagniard in the 1950s, this passive geophysical method is used for
oil exploration in regions where seismic surveys are difficult. For 10 points each:
[h] Name this geophysical method that measures the electrical resistivity of subsurface features using currents
induced by naturally occurring electromagnetic waves.
ANSWER: magnetotellurics [or MT; accept anything mentioning telluric currents; accept audio-frequency
magnetotellurics; accept AMT; accept controlled source audio magnetotellurics; accept CSAMT]
[e] Very high resistivities found using magnetotellurics can be indicative of the presence of this abundant crustal
mineral. Tetrahedral lattices of SiO4 (“S-I-O-four”) make up this mineral with a Mohs hardness of seven.
ANSWER: quartz
[m] Magnetotellurics takes this quantity’s effect on rock resistivity into account using Hashin–Shtrikman bounds
and Archie’s first law. This quantity is closely related to the void ratio.
ANSWER: porosity [accept porous or porousness]
<Other Science: Earth Science, TH>
13. This organization operated out of Alamut Castle after its seizure by Hassan-i Sabbah, who was referred to as
“The Old Man of the Mountain.” For 10 points each:
[e] Name this Ismaili Shia order known for using hashish and secretively murdering political enemies, a proclivity
that has resulted in their name becoming a byword for political killers.
ANSWER: Assassins [or Ḥashīshiyya; prompt on Nizaris]
[h] This Seljuk politician is often cited as the first victim of the Assassins. This politician composed the Siyāsatnāma
and is the namesake of a type of 11th-century educational institution.
ANSWER: Nizam al-Mulk [or Abu Ali Hasan ibn Ali ibn Ishaq al-Tusi; prompt on Nizamiyyah or Nezamiyeh]
[m] This ruler and his son Malik Shah both employed Nizam al-Mulk as Vizier. This ruler captured Byzantine
emperor Romanos IV, as related by the chronicler Abu Bakr al-Turtushi.
ANSWER: Alp Arslan [or Muhammad bin Dawud Chagri]
<World History, GP>
14. After answering a call in a Cockney accent concerning several people being in Spain, a character in this play
switches to a posh accent to wonder if she was supposed to get a plate of sardines from the kitchen. For 10 points
each:
[m] Name this farce by Michael Frayn whose three acts feature performances of the first act of a fictional play
directed by Lloyd Dallas.
ANSWER: Noises Of
[e] Shelagh Delaney’s A Taste of Honey and plays by a group dubbed the “Angry Young Men” are standouts of the
“kitchen sink” style of this movement that focused on the everyday lives of the English working class.
ANSWER: realism [accept kitchen sink realism or social realism; accept realist literature]
[h] Deli struggles to keep his son away from London gangs while running a West Indian plantain shop in Elmina’s
Kitchen, a play by this current artistic director of the Young Vic. Idris Elba collaborated with this author on the 2019
musical Tree.
ANSWER: Kwame Kwei-Armah [prompt on partial answer]
<Drama, AP>
15. In Acts chapter 14, verse 12, the populace of Lystra believe Paul and Barnabas to be human incarnations of these
two deities. For 10 points each:
[m] Name these two Greek deities who, in another myth, reward Philemon and Baucis for their hospitality by
granting their wish to die at the same instance by transforming them into a two-trunked tree.
ANSWER: Zeus [accept Jupiter] AND
Hermes [accept Mercury]
[h] Bart Ehrman’s book How Jesus Became God discusses the Paul and Barnabas episode as evidence that deity
incarnation was a common Greco-Roman belief. That book also discusses this Greek philosopher and prophet from
Tyana, who is notable for his many parallels with Jesus, including claims of divinity, a virgin birth, and returning
from the dead.
ANSWER: Apollonius of Tyana [or Apollonios of Tyana]
[e] The similar hero stories of Apollonius of Tyana and Jesus are compared in The Hero with A Thousand Faces, a
book by this comparative mythologist.
ANSWER: Joseph Campbell [or Joseph John Campbell]
<Mythology, TH>
16. Pencil and paper ready. You are a sad quantum student reviewing for your midterm by adding the spins of a
spin one-half particle and a spin-1 particle. For 10 points each.
[h] You grudgingly begin by figuring out that the allowed values of the total spin are three-halves and one-half. You
reached that conclusion because (emphasize) this integer is both (read slowly until end) the dimension of the direct
(emphasize) sum of a spin three-halves space and a spin one-half space, and the dimension of the direct (emphasize)
product of a spin one-half space and a spin one space.
ANSWER: 6 (The dimension can be calculated as (2*3/2 + 1) + (2*1/2 + 1) = 6, or (2*1/2 + 1)(2*1 + 1) = 6.)
[e] When constructing all 6 coupling states, you simplify your calculations by remembering that states with different
values of s have this property. This property is a generalization of perpendicularity to arbitrary vector spaces.
ANSWER: orthogonality [accept orthonormality]
[m] You check your algebra by looking up the table of these coefficients on page 188 of Griffith’s, second edition.
These coefficients represent the probability amplitudes of the coupling of angular momentum eigenstates.
ANSWER: Clebsch–Gordan coefficients [or vector addition coefficients]
<Physics, LL>
17. Dance suites of the Baroque era often used the “balanced” type of this form, while composers of the early
Classical were more likely to use its rounded variant. For 10 points each:
[m] Name this musical form that structures phrases in either an A-B or A-A-B-B pattern. According to a namesake
principle, a continuous major piece in this form should modulate from the tonic to the dominant in the first section,
and then modulate back to tonic in the second.
ANSWER: binary form [accept rounded binary form; accept balanced binary form; accept simple binary form;
accept binary principle]
[e] The popularity of binary form waned over the course of the Classical era largely because of the popularity of this
other form that can be broken down into exposition, development and recapitulation sections.
ANSWER: sonata form [accept first-movement form]
[h] According to the binary principle, a continuous binary piece beginning in the key of B minor should modulate to
what key in its second section?
ANSWER: D major [prompt on D]
<Classical Music, TH>
18. This film was the first major American blockbuster to open in China, appearing in just six cities in that country
in 1994. For 10 points each:
[h] Name this film, an update of a 1960s TV series starring David Janssen whose finale was once the highest-rated
TV program in history. Kiefer Sutherland is starring in a Quibi (“kwibby”) update of this film and TV show.
ANSWER: The Fugitive
[e] Although many American films now open more widely in China, they still face censorship. Many of the scenes
touching on Freddie Mercury’s sexuality in this 2018 film were removed for the Chinese market.
ANSWER: Bohemian Rhapsody
[m] The Chinese blockbuster industry has not produced a major hit abroad. This sequel and all-time highest grossing
Chinese film about a hostage rescue in Africa grossed just 2.7 of its 867-million-dollar box office in the US.
ANSWER: Wolf Warrior 2 [or Zhan Lang 2; reject “Wolf Warrior” or “Zhan Lang”]
<Pop Culture, MB>
19. Armed with books like Florence Adams’ I Took a Hammer in My Hand, over two thousand people attended a
“fair” named for these buildings in 1973 at the Hotel Bossert. For 10 points each:
[m] Give this term for a type of home whose characteristic façade was often obtained from the Portland Quarries in
Connecticut.
ANSWER: brownstone townhouse [prompt on row houses or townhouses]
[e] In his book Bricks & Brownstones, Charles Lockwood showed that many Manhattan brownstones were built
from kits. Many later kit houses were constructed across the US from the mail-order catalogue of this department
store that went bankrupt in 2018.
ANSWER: Sears [or Sears, Roebuck and Co.]
[h] This architecture critic complained that brownstones were nothing more than “cold chocolate sauce.” This critic
co-authored The Decoration of Houses with Ogden Codman in 1897.
ANSWER: Edith Wharton [prompt on Edith Newbold Jones]
<Other Arts: Visual, MB>
20. A character carrying out this action notes that one of the objects involved was in need of “a little rhubarb to
purge [its] excess of bile.” For 10 points each:
[m] Name or describe this action carried out by a priest and a barber and observed by a girl who later claims that the
objects involved were actually stolen by a sage of questionable name.
ANSWER: burning of Don Quixote’s books [accept equivalents for burning and books like incinerating
romances; accept destroying instead of burning; prompt on burning by asking “what objects are being burned?”;
prompt on answers mentioning books by asking “what is being done to the books?”]
[h] This Valencian romance is spared from being burned when it falls at the feet of the priest, who calls it the “best
book in the world” although he says its author, Joanot Martorell (“zhew-ah-NAWT mart-oh-REL”) ought to be “sent
to the galleys for life.”
ANSWER: Tirant Lo Blanch (“tee-RAHN lo blank”) [or Tirant lo Blanc; or Tirante el Blanco; accept, but DO
NOT REVEAL, Tirant the White]
[e] Tirant Lo Blanch translates as “Tirant” of this color in English. In Don Quixote, Sansón Carrasco is revealed to
be the Knight of the Moon of this color.
ANSWER: white
<Long Fiction, AP>
21. Machamer, Darden, and Craver presented an influential definition of these things in a 2000 paper titled for
“thinking about” them. For 10 points each:
[h] Name these things that have been the focus of a “new” movement in the philosophy of science since the
beginning of the 21st century. The MDC definition of these things states that they are both “entities and activities”
that are productive of regular changes from start to end conditions.
ANSWER: mechanisms [accept “Thinking About Mechanisms”; accept new mechanism]
[e] The turn from pure logical empiricism to historically-informed examinations of mechanisms can be traced to this
philosopher’s influential book The Structure of Scientific Revolutions.
ANSWER: Thomas Kuhn [or Thomas Samuel Kuhn]
[m] Thinkers of the new mechanist movement who give activity-based accounts of causation through mechanisms
draw on the work of this earlier philosopher, who wrote about a bomb attached to a Geiger counter in the paper
“Causality and Determination.”
ANSWER: G. E. M. Anscombe [or Gertrude Elizabeth Margaret Anscombe]
<Philosophy, TH>
22. Answer the following about the surrender of the Kingdom of Granada, for 10 points each:
[e] This edict, which was passed after the surrender and named after a Granadan palace complex, prohibited
marranos from exporting ducats and expelled all Jews from Spain.
ANSWER: Alhambra Decree [or Edict of Expulsion]
[m] This last Nasrid Sultan of Granada is said to have been told, “You weep like a woman for what you could not
defend as a man,” by his mother as he looked back at the city after handing the Alhambra’s keys to Ferdinand II, an
event known as “the Moor’s last sigh.”
ANSWER: Boabdil [or Abu Abdallah Muhammad XII]
[h] Many Granada Muslims called moriscos were forced to convert to Christianity in the aftermath of the first of
these uprisings named after a mountainous region of Castille. Aben Humeya led the second uprising of this name.
ANSWER: Rebellion of the Alpujarras [accept War of the Alpujarras]
<Post-500 European History, AD>


