2021 ACF Nationals
Packet 1 by the Editors
Edited by Matt Bollinger, Jordan Brownstein, Andrew Hart, Ike Jose, Jack Mehr, Eric Mukherjee, Derek So, Jerry
Vinokurov, Ryan Westbrook, and Jennie Yang
Tossups
1. This text describes a ritual in which villages put away iron implements before a touring earth goddess arrives on a
cow-drawn chariot; afterwards, the goddess is cleansed in a lake by slaves, who are then themselves drowned. The
“Codex Aesinas,” discovered in 1902, contains portions of a 15th-century manuscript of this text first prominently
analyzed by Pope Pius II. The humanist Konrad Celtis helped bring this text to prominence with an edition that
removed all mentions of human sacrifice. Reactionary political actors seized on this text’s claim that its subjects
were “unpolluted by intermarriage.” In 1943, Heinrich Himmler dispatched SS agents to retrieve the oldest
surviving manuscript of this text, which deals with peoples like the Suebi, Chatti, and Marcomanni. For 10 points,
name this ethnographic work by Tacitus about barbarian tribes beyond the Rhine.
ANSWER: Germania [or Germany]
2. Since 2010, this task has been most successfully performed using Alexander Yee’s y-cruncher software.
Rabinowitz and Wagon coined the term “spigot algorithm” for algorithms that can perform this task at an arbitrary
starting point. The difference of two arctan functions performs this task in Machin-like formulas. A series expansion
of the j-function performs this task in a formula given by Bailey, Borwein, and Plouffe. One algorithm used to
perform this task relies on an identity derived from a Ramanujan-Sato series; that is the Chudnovsky algorithm. This
task can be performed by dropping needles on lines and relating the number of drops to hits in Buffon’s problem.
Archimedes’ method for this task relies on bounding a shape using two polygons: one circumscribed and one
inscribed. For 10 points, name this task of attempting to quantify the ratio of a circle’s circumference to its diameter.
ANSWER: approximating pi [or calculating pi or other equivalents]
3. Daniel Day-Lewis built one of this non-British fashion designer’s dresses from scratch after his biography
inspired Paul Thomas Anderson to write Phantom Thread. This designer worked with the Abraham company to
develop a type of silk as stiff as aluminum called “gazar,” which he used for his kimono-like “tulip dress.” After
experimenting with the “cocoon” jacket and “square coat” in the 1940s, this mentor of Oscar de la Renta and Hubert
de Givenchy eliminated waists entirely from his 1957 “baby doll” dress and “sack” dress. This designer, whom
Christian Dior called “the master of us all,” took inspiration from his home country with creations based on Catholic
clerical mantles and a 1939 dress based on the princess in Las Meninas. For 10 points, name this avant-garde
dressmaker, the most famous fashion designer from Spain, whose company logo is a pair of back-to-back Bs.
ANSWER: Cristóbal Balenciaga Eizaguirre
4. In a 2019 book, New York Times reporter Ian Urbina noted that these objects make heavy use of polluting "magic
pipes." Residents of Red Hook, Brooklyn have complained that a Bloomberg-era power station for these objects has
been used only about 30% of the time, raising asthma rates. A legal loophole has made Ogden Point in Victoria,
British Columbia an attractive site for these objects, causing a massive pollution problem due to "hotelling." Italy
passed new regulations on these objects after a 2012 incident blamed on Francesco Schettino, but those regulations
exempt Venice, where poor operations in the Giudecca in 2019 threatened a UNESCO World Heritage site. A think
tank concluded that all the diesel cars in Europe produced ten times less sulfur emissions than a popular operator of
these objects, Carnival. For 10 points, name these vehicles that might transport tourists around the Caribbean.
ANSWER: cruise ships [prompt on passenger ships or boats] (Ian Urbina’s book is The Outlaw Ocean.)
5. This author collaborated with David Lan on a dance-drama in which Doreen, possessed by Agave, dismembers
Derek, possessed by Pentheus. A play by this author whose second act takes place in a dystopian hat factory ends
with a monologue about a nonsensical world war with combatants like gravity, Bolivia, the weather, and mallards.
This author of A Mouthful of Birds and Far Away drew accusations of antisemitism for a work subtitled “A Play for
Gaza,” Seven Jewish Children. Victoria, Lin, and Edward invoke a sex goddess before starting an orgy in a park in a
play by this author that jumps settings from colonial Africa to 1979 London. In another play by this author, Pope
Joan, Lady Nijo, and the Patient Griselda attend a dinner party celebrating the ruthless Marlene’s promotion at the
title agency. For 10 points, name this contemporary British feminist playwright of Cloud Nine and Top Girls.
ANSWER: Caryl Churchill
6. This thinker drew a 5-by-5 matrix that contains 20 primordial fundamental determinations of knowing, as well as
five more based on the “five-fold synthesis” derived from one of his other works. This author’s review of a former
student’s treatise Aenesidemus led him to posit that “empirical representations of consciousness” allow for the
creation of a system of morality. This philosopher promoted a doctrine of Anstoss, arguing that a certain subject
must be “checked” or “limited” by an entity called the “Not-I.” A book by this thinker claims that the self, or Ich, is
the source of all knowledge; that book was derided as “nihilism” by his former ally Karl Reinhold, who later got this
thinker fired from the University of Jena by accusing him of atheism. For 10 points, the Wissenschaftslehre
(“VISS-en-shofts-LAY-ruh”) system was proposed by what German idealist who wrote An Attempt at a Critique of
All Revelation?
ANSWER: Johann Gottleib Fichte
7. Specific term required. In one story, an army of these creatures in the water made whips out of seaweed and
fought another army of them on land. Before being killed, one of these creatures curses his opponent to never grow
any stronger, limiting him to half the strength he would have attained, after raising a bull over his head and breaking
its back on a stone wall. One of these creatures named Thrain is a cat with razor nails, while another shape-shifts
into a cat that rests on a sleeping man and gets heavier until it suffocates him. The king Hrolf Krakki is killed with
his berserkers after being encircled by these creatures, who are all under the command of Skuld. The most powerful
of these beings, Glam, is killed by Grettir the Strong in a wrestling match after having originated as a man who got
stuck to the ground in the winter snow and died. For 10 points, name these rotting corpses of Norse myth who rise
from the dead and attack at night.
ANSWER: draugr [or aptrganga; or aptrgangr; or haugbui; prompt on general terms such as vampires, or
revenants, or night-walkers, or barrow-dwellers, or cairn-dwellers]
8. A drawing of this woman is clutched by Benedetto Pesaro’s wife, who wears a puffy, orange-and-green dress with
fur-lined slits, in a Lorenzo Lotto painting. A Corinthian column topped by a marble statue of David with Goliath’s
head dominates the center of a Botticelli spalliera painting depicting three incidents of her life simultaneously.
Rembrandt copied the pose of Caravaggio’s David with the Head of Goliath for his painting of this woman tearfully
pulling on a bell cord. One of Titian’s final paintings for Philip II, a Giulio Romano-inspired istoria, depicts a
dagger-wielding man grabbing this naked woman in her bed. The death of this woman was avenged by a man who
sits brooding in the shadows in front of attendants carrying a bier (“beer”) to his weeping wife in a Jacques-Louis
David painting. For 10 points, name this wife of Collatinus who committed suicide after her rape by Sextus Tarquin.
ANSWER: Lucretia [or Lucrezia; or Lucrece]
9. In one poem, this writer imagines learning from a neighbor’s paper on the subway that the addressee had died,
and vows to react only by reading “where to store furs and how to treat the hair.” Another poem by this writer ends
with the prediction, “Now will the god, for blasphemy so brave / punish me, surely, with the shaft I crave!” This
poet wrote about an abstraction that “can not fill the thickened lung with breath, nor clean the blood, nor set the
fractured bone” in a poem included in Fatal Interview. This poet collected six sonnets with a long poem that
controversially only received fourth prize in a contest in The Lyric Year, which opens, “All I could see from where I
stood / was three long mountains and a wood.” For 10 points, name this poet of “Renascence” and the collection A
Few Figs from Thistles, the latter of which contains a poem about a candle burning at both ends.
ANSWER: Edna St Vincent Millay
10. This substance is sensed by the Sensei riboswitch. Poly-rC proteins serve as chaperones for this substance.
Accessibility to DFO can be used to define the labile pool of this substance. A colloidal form of this substance is
used to stain mucin and acidic mucopolysaccharides (“muco-poly-saccharides”) blue. Duodenal cytochrome b acts
on this substance to allow its uptake by DMT1 (“D-M-T-one”). A conserved C in the bulge connecting an upper and
lower helix characterizes this substance’s namesake RNA response element, which controls the mRNA stability of
TFR1 and FTH1. Deferoxamine is used to treat an overload of this substance, which can cause a bronze diabetes.
Methylene blue reduces the oxidized form of this substance to treat a condition that turns babies blue, called
methemoglobinemia (“meth-emo-globin-emia”). For 10 points, name this element whose levels are increased in
hemochromatosis (“hemo-chroma-tosis”), and which is found complexed to heme (“heem”) in hemoglobin.
ANSWER: iron [or Fe2+; or Fe3+; prompt on hemoglobin]
11. US Ambassador to Chile Edward Korry said he was blackmailed by this man for dirt on Henry Kissinger. This
man was duped by Lawrence X. Cusack into believing John F. Kennedy bribed Marilyn Monroe to stay quiet about
an affair; those revelations were published in his 1997 book The Dark Side of Camelot. This man, who was the New
York Times' Washington correspondent during Watergate, got a tip from Geoffrey Cowan at the Village Voice for his
biggest story. In 2015, the London Review of Books' website crashed after publishing a story by this man alleging
that the ISI was warned about a pending raid on a complex in Abbottabad to kill Osama bin Laden. An earlier story
reported by this man involved “an unspecified number of civilians” being killed by Lieutenant William L. Calley.
For 10 points, name this reporter who broke the story of the My Lai (“me lie”) massacre.
ANSWER: Seymour Hersh [or Sy Hersh; or Seymour Myron Hersh]
12. This man identified himself with the Bodhisattva Sadaparibhuta in his treatise Liberation from Blindness, which
he wrote in exile after his beheading was called off due to a glaringly bright moon. This man’s splenetic tirades
against rival sects are summed up in his “Four Sayings,” including “Nenbutsu leads to Avicii hell.” Followers of this
man interpreted the Mongol invasions of Japan as confirmation of the conveniently-vague warnings of coming
disasters in his treatise Rissho Ankoku Ron. This man depicted the “Ceremony in the Air” episode on a calligraphic
mandala called the Gohonzon. An enormous cult called the “Value-Creation Society” is a branch of this man’s
religious sect, which venerates the Lotus Sutra by chanting its Japanese title, Namu Myoho Renge Kyo. For 10
points, name this 13th-century Japanese monk who founded a namesake branch of Mahayana Buddhism.
ANSWER: Nichiren
13. Late in this century, a type of cheap-to-produce ship called the fluyt (“FLIGHT”) was invented, which helped
stimulate the Dutch economy. According to Immanuel Wallerstein, the “long” version of this century is when the
modern world-system emerged. This century included the majority of the period of inflation in Western Europe
known as the price revolution, partly caused by this century’s many monetary debasements. During this century, the
number of cities in Europe with a population greater than 100,000 rose from five to about fourteen. During this
century, agrarian revolts like Kett’s Rebellion sprung up in response to the ramping up of enclosure in England. The
emergence of modern capitalism is typically traced back to, for 10 points, what century in which Europe’s
population finally recovered after being devastated two centuries earlier by the Black Death?
ANSWER: 16th century [or 1500s]
14. This city is the home of an early music male a cappella group called Suspicious Cheese Lords. A research
institute and historic estate in this city commissioned Caroline Shaw’s string quartet Plan & Elevation for its 75th
anniversary. The second movement of a concerto written for that institute in this city features a jaunty stepwise F E
F E-flat F motif. After defecting, Mstislav Rostropovich was the music director of an orchestra in this city. Leonard
Bernstein’s theatrical Mass was composed for the opening of a performing arts center in this city. The two-step
dance was popularized by a John Phillips Sousa march written for a newspaper from this city. Nadia Boulanger
(“boo-lawn-ZHAY”) conducted the premiere of Igor Stravinsky’s “Dumbarton Oaks” Concerto in this city. For 10
points, name this home city of the Kennedy Center and the National Symphony Orchestra.
ANSWER: Washington, D.C. [accept either underlined part]
15. This operation appears multiplying the homoclinic orbit function in the integrand of the Poincare-Melnikov
integral. This operation is real bilinear, skew-symmetric, and satisfies Jacobi’s identity, with the consequence that
smooth functions on a manifold form a Lie (“lee”) algebra under this operation, which is identical to a Lie (“lee”)
directional derivative. The time derivative of any function on a symplectic manifold can be rewritten as the sum of
the time partial of the function and this operation applied to the function and the Hamiltonian. This operation on two
functions, f and g, of canonical position p and momentum q is given by the sum over the coordinates i of quantity
partial-f-partial-q-sub-i times partial-g-partial-p-sub-i minus partial-f-partial-p-sub-i times partial-g-partial-q-sub-i.
For 10 points, identify this operation from mechanics named for a French mathematician.
ANSWER: Poisson bracket [accept Lie bracket before mention; prompt on commutator with “what is its classical
analogue?”]
16. The first author to translate this work became so excited upon first reading it that he tore his clothes off and ran
around the room. The first German translator of this work was stripped of his professorship after he lectured on its
implications in front of Wilhelm II. William Gladstone attended the reveal of this work’s first translation by George
Smith. The first complete translation of this work was published in Germany, where Friedrich Delitzsch used it to
argue that Jesus was Aryan and Peter Jensen used it to argue that Jesus did not exist. This work, which inspired the
“Babel und Bibel” controversy, was first translated in a book that focused on its fragmentary 11th section, titled The
Chaldean Account of Genesis. That section of this work describes the building of a 120-cubit boat that gets stuck on
Mt. Nimush. For 10 points, name this poem in which flood survivor Utnapishtim is visited by a certain king of Uruk.
ANSWER: the Epic of Gilgamesh [accept descriptions that refer specifically to the flood tablet from the epic of
Gilgamesh; prompt on the flood myth with “Which work was the flood myth found in?”]
17. This scholar and John Campbell co-wrote a 1988 paper from which this man developed a cyclically-averaged
market metric called CAPE. He examined historical market fluctuations to argue that volatility was too large to be
explained by rationality in his landmark 1981 critique of the efficient-market hypothesis titled “Do Stock Prices
Move Too Much to Be Justified by Subsequent Changes in Dividends?” He warned of the impending collapse of the
dot-com bubble in the first edition, and the impending collapse of the real-estate bubble in the second edition, of a
2000 bestseller that this behavior finance scholar titled after an Alan Greenspan quote. An S&P “repeat sales” index
that tracks the housing market is named after Karl Case and, for 10 points, what Nobel-winning economist at Yale
who wrote the 2000 book Irrational Exuberance and co-authored 2009’s Animal Spirits with George Akerlof?
ANSWER: Robert [James] Shiller
18. A character in this novel compares civilized men to swimmers being eaten by Brazilian piranhas and explains
his theory that men have wives and pets to feel powerful upon seeing a house topped with the head of two slaves. In
the final chapter of this novel, snowflakes on a windowpane are said to resemble the doves in a country’s sky. The
protagonist of this novel explains his “need to feel above” while bragging about his virtue for never accepting
bribes. Its protagonist uses “debauchery” to suppress the nagging memories of laughter he heard on the street and
the humiliation of being punched by a motorcyclist. The protagonist of this novel regrets not saving a woman he saw
jumping from a bridge and compares a city’s canals to the concentric circles of hell. For 10 points, name this series
of monologues told from the Amsterdam bar Mexico City by the judge-penitent Clamence, a novel by Albert Camus.
ANSWER: The Fall [or La Chute]
19. Opponents of this movement tried to control its influence by calling together the “Father-and-Son Cabinet” or
“Great Cabinet,” featuring past military heroes. This movement supported a party that cruised to victory in the “Big
Stick Election,” named for intimidation of opposing voters. This group’s opponents ended an ongoing war by
signing the Treaty of Ouchy (“ow-SHE”). Upon its final collapse, its intelligence division members reformed as the
Black Arm, or Karakol. This movement was opposed by a secret society called the Savior Officers. This movement,
which embroiled its nation in the Tripolitan War, rose to power at the start of the Second Constitutional Era and
allied with the Committee of Union and Progress. This group was founded by a triumvirate dubbed the Three
Pashas, including Enver Pasha. For 10 points, name this movement of secular activists in the years before Kemal
Ataturk.
ANSWER: Young Turks [or the “Party of Union and Progress”; accept Committee of Union and Progress or
CUP or Committee For Union and Progress before “Committee” is read]
20. Analysis of VPDs obtained from chirped-pulse millimeter-wave spectroscopy may be used to infer the properties
of these structures. Richard Bernstein was a pioneer in the observation of these structures, which have exactly one
imaginary frequency. Early molecular beam experiments could not detect these structures as time-averaging resulted
in poor signal-to-noise ratios. An early direct measurement of these structures was made while observing cyanogen
iodide. Ahmed Zewail’s 1999 Nobel in Chemistry was for a technique he pioneered for observing these structures.
Because their lifetimes are on the scale of molecular vibrations, pump-probe experiments with femtosecond lasers
are needed to observe these structures. For 10 points, name these short-lived structures with lifetimes shorter than
reaction intermediates, defined as the highest-energy points on a reaction coordinate.
ANSWER: transition states [or activated complex]
Bonuses
1. Robert Browning’s “The Lost Leader” blasts this writer for his turn towards conservatism, which is evidenced by
his “Ode to Duty.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this writer who related his political disillusionment through the story of “The Solitary” in his long poem,
The Excursion.
ANSWER: William Wordsworth
[10] This poet lamented Wordsworth’s abandonment of “songs consecrate to truth and liberty” in his poem “To
Wordsworth.” He gave voice to his own political ideals in such poems as “Ode to the West Wind.”
ANSWER: Percy Bysshe Shelley
[10] In a letter to Richard Woodhouse, Keats coined this critical two-word phrase for the way Wordsworth’s
“poetical character...stands alone.” Keats also called himself a “chameleon poet” in contrast to this type of genius.
ANSWER: the egotistical sublime
2. These people’s king Tirigan retreated to his capital at Dabrum after a defeat by Utu-Hengal. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these hill people who, according to the “Curse of Akkad,” barked like dogs and pushed down from the
North to destroy the Akkadian empire while it was ruled by the great-grandson of Sargon the Great.
ANSWER: Gutians [or the Guti; or Quti; or Gutium]
[10] The Guti invasion coincided with the “4.2 kiloyear event” and the appearance of the Hale-Bopp one of these
astronomical events, which later caused Heavensgate cultists to drink vodka and phenobarbital.
ANSWER: comets
[10] After defeating the Guti, the Sumerians under Ur-Nammu created this unit of silver weight, later set equal to 60
shekels. In ancient Greece, 70 drachmae equaled this unit, until it was later changed to 100 drachmae, and sixty of
these equaled one Talent.
ANSWER: mina [or mene]
3. A 17-year-old Georges Bizet wrote a symphony in this key that wasn’t premiered until 60 years after his death.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this key. Bizet, Stravinsky, and Wagner all wrote symphonies titled for this key also used in the Jupiter
Symphony. Its relative minor is A minor.
ANSWER: C Major
[10] Bizet modeled his Symphony in C after a Symphony in D written by his teacher, who was this composer of the
operas Mireille (“meer-EY”) and Roméo et Juliette.
ANSWER: Charles Gounod [or Charles-François Gounod]
[10] Bizet’s Symphony in C was premiered under the baton of this Austrian conductor, who was the first to record
all the Beethoven symphonies. This conductor led the Vienna Philharmonic from 1903 to 1927.
ANSWER: Felix Weingartner [accept Paul Felix Weingartner, Edler von Münzberg]
4. In the solid state, these materials are divided into three broad classes: glassy, semicrystalline, and
network-forming. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this general class of macromolecules, in which individual strands can assemble into networks.
ANSWER: polymers
[10] This class of network-forming polymers irreversibly forms rigid structures via “curing,” usually through the
application of heat. Examples include epoxy resins and Bakelite.
ANSWER: thermosetting polymers [do not accept or prompt on “thermoplastics”]
[10] Given a collection of polymers with degree of polymerization N, the critical extent of reaction needed to form
an infinite network, also called the gel point, is approximately given by what function of N? You may assume that N
is considerably larger than 1..
ANSWER: 1 over N [or 1 divided by N; or the inverse of N; or the reciprocal of N; or 1 over (N minus 1)]
5. Answer the following about intellectual “Revolutions” in American history, for 10 points each.
[10] This agronomist, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1970 for his work as the father of the Green Revolution,
which focused on increasing agricultural yield in developing countries using products like his dwarf wheat strain
developed at Campo Atizapan.
ANSWER: Norman Borlaug
[10] Samuel Slater brought the Industrial Revolution to America, creating his first spinning mill for Moses Brown in
this U.S. state. Roger Williams founded its colony after getting kicked out of Massachusetts Bay.
ANSWER: Rhode Island
[10] In 1941, James Burnham wrote about this kind of revolution, which George Orwell responded to in an essay on
some “Second Thoughts.” Burnham argues that FDR’s New Deal drove American capitalism toward this revolution,
allowing the rise of a class in control of the means of production.
ANSWER: Managerial Revolution
6. Answer the following about the life of Shneur Zalman of Liadi, for 10 points each.
[10] This best-known book by Shneur Zalman, formally called the Likkutei Amarim, is the cornerstone of his
Chabad philosophy of Hasidic Judaism. It is known by the Aramaic word that opens it, which refers to an oral
teaching in a “baraita.”
ANSWER: Tanya
[10] This leader of the Jews in Lithuania, otherwise known as Elijah ben Solomon Zalman, refused to meet with
Shneur Zalman. He headed the “Misnagdim,” or opponents of the Hasidim.
ANSWER: the Vilna Gaon [or the “Gaon of Vilnius”; or “Gaon z Wilna”; or the HaGra]
[10] Schneir Zalman was thrown in the Peter and Paul Fortress for sending money to Palestine, but allowed religious
freedom by this Russian Tsar who ruled after Tsar Paul from 1801 to 1825.
ANSWER: Tsar Alexander I of Russia [prompt on Alexander]
7. Jamie Peck co-wrote a 2002 paper with Adam Tickell that takes a process-oriented approach to this concept’s
application to “space.” For 10 points each:
[10] Peck and Tickrell characterized this concept as having destructive “roll-back” and creative “roll-out” phases.
ANSWER: neoliberalism [or “Neoliberalizing Space”; accept answers mentioning forms of the word neoliberal;
do not accept or prompt on “liberalism” or answers mentioning only “liberal”]
[10] A 2001 article by Loïc Wacquant and this sociologist calls the “newspeak” of neoliberalism a “new planetary
vulgate.” His book The Weight of the World deploys his concepts of “field” and “doxis.”
ANSWER: Pierre Bourdieu
[10] Quinn Slobodian’s book Globalists examines how the term “neoliberalism” was coined by Alexander Rüstow
at the 1938 Walter Lippmann Colloquium, a gathering that inspired this Austrian arch-neoliberal and author of The
Road to Serfdom to found the Mont Pelerin Society.
ANSWER: Friedrich Hayek [or Friedrich August von Hayek; or F. A. Hayek]
8. One use of this assay is to isolate antigen-specific lymphocytes. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this assay in which the release of mediators from single cells is measured by an antibody-coated well. It
was developed by Cecil Czerkinsky.
ANSWER: ELIspot [or Fluorospot]
[10] One of the original uses of the ELIspot assay was to characterize these cells, which are used to manufacture
monoclonal antibodies. They’re a fusion between a B cell and a myeloma cell line.
ANSWER: hybridomas
[10] Hybridomas are usually isolated from the spleen of mice. In people with this condition, which is caused by a
glutamic acid to valine mutation in the beta-chain of hemoglobin, the spleen often auto-infarcts.
ANSWER: sickle-cell anemia
9. This author suggested that accepting conclusion Z based on premises A and B requires a third premise C that
states “If A and B are true, Z must be true,” and so on ad infinitum for each new premise. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of an 1895 paper published in Mind titled “What the Tortoise said to Achilles.” This writer
presented the earliest modern “truth tree” method in his textbook, Symbolic Logic.
ANSWER: Lewis Carroll [or Charles Lutwidge Dodgson]
[10] In the paper “Practical Tortoise Raising,” Simon Blackburn replaced Carroll’s premises A and B with “fact”
and “reason” to defend the compatibilist view of free will in this philosopher’s A Treatise of Human Nature.
ANSWER: David Hume
[10] Carroll’s paper was called “an infinitely long red herring” by James F. Thomson, who coined this term for
activities with infinitely many steps, such as the act of turning a lamp on and off at ever-shorter intervals.
ANSWER: supertasks
10. The semi-mythical Jewish woman Esterka was reputed to be the mistress of this king, who built most of the
castles located on the Trail of the Eagle's Nests. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this king who foresaw that he would die without a male heir, so he agreed to the “Angevin
Succession” and named his nephew Louis I of Hungary to take the throne on his death.
ANSWER: Casimir the Great [or Casimir III of Poland, prompt on “Casimir”]
[10] Casimir was a member of this dynasty, the first ruling dynasty of Poland, which started with Mieszko in 960 CE
and ran through 1370. For most of their run, they ruled alongside the Premyslids of Bohemia.
ANSWER: Piast Dynasty
[10] Casimir the Great called a massive Congress at this Polish city in 1364, featuring a legendary feast, and
founded the first Polish university here. It was the largest city until Sigismund III moved the capital to Warsaw.
ANSWER: Krakow [or Cracow]
11. To avoid bothering his neighbors, this musician learned to pluck guitar strings with the side of his thumb, a skill
he used to produce his distinctive soft sound. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this jazz guitarist behind albums like Movin’ Along and Full House. After signing with A&M Records,
he pivoted to recording jazz covers of popular hits, such as the songs on his 1967 album A Day in the Life.
ANSWER: Wes Montgomery [or John Leslie “Wes” Montgomery]
[10] This guitarist recorded the album Idle Moments and later covered the Beatles’ “A Day in the Life.” Samples of
his funk-influenced music appear on many hip-hop songs, including Kendrick Lamar’s “Sing About Me, I’m Dying
of Thirst.”
ANSWER: Grant Green
[10] In the late 1960s, this jazz bandleader produced two albums of Beatles covers with his namesake “orchestra.”
His band is better known for its work during the swing era, such as the standard “One O’Clock Jump.”
ANSWER: Count Basie [or William James “Count” Basie]
12. In this author’s most popular novel, White Man’s Dog gains a new name for himself after killing the leader of a
rival tribe in the 1870s. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of Fools Crow and Winter in the Blood, a member of the Blackfeet and Gros Ventre tribes
who became one of the earliest members of the Native American Renaissance.
ANSWER: James Welch
[10] The Native American Renaissance is generally considered to have begun with the publication of this 1969
novel about Abel’s return to New Mexico that won the Pulitzer Prize for N. Scott Momaday.
ANSWER: House Made of Dawn
[10] Many Native American Renaissance novels feature people with this characteristic, such as the protagonist of
Welch’s novel The Death of Jim Loney. Authors with this characteristic include Gerald Vizenor and Louise Erdrich.
ANSWER: being of mixed race [accept equivalents such as being part white or half-white]
13. This creature shapeshifted into a deer to try to sink three calabashes, or gourds, thrown into the Kawashima
River. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this water dragon slain by Agatamori after failing that challenge, turning the river into a blood red pool.
ANSWER: Mizuchi
[10] This better-known Japanese water dragon with an eight-forked tail was slain by Susanowo, who found inside
the Kusanagi sword.
ANSWER: Yamata no Orochi
[10] A sea monster called the wani appears in the Japanese tale named for this animal “of Inaba,” who gets flayed by
some sharks after deviously using them as a bridge. This animal is later found by Okuninushi, who fixes its skin by
telling it to bathe in fresh water and roll in cattail pollen.
ANSWER: hare or rabbit [or “The White Hare of Inaba”]
14. These equations set pressure proportional to the density raised to the power n + 1 over n, where n is an integer.
For 10 points each:
[10] Identify these equations of state, which are typically used to model stellar interiors. The integer n is known as
their namesake index.
ANSWER: polytropes
[10] Polytropes are solutions to the Lane-Emden equation, which has analytical solutions for a polytropic index of 0,
1 and this other value. A polytrope of this index can model a self-consistent star system and has infinite radius.
ANSWER: 5
[10] Depending on how relativistic its contents are, polytropes of either index 3/2 or 3 can be used to model this type
of star, whose maximum mass of about 1.4 solar masses is called the Chandrasekhar limit.
ANSWER: white dwarf
15. This man published a newspaper The Crusader with his wife Mabel and, after he was exiled to Cuba, Fidel
Castro gave him a radio station called Radio Free Dixie. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this civil rights leader who became one of the first black voices to advocate violence, spelled out in his
1962 book Negroes With Guns.
ANSWER: Robert F. Williams
[10] Williams’ book became a standard text for this party founded by Huey Newton in Oakland, with its minister of
defense Bobby Seale.
ANSWER: Black Panther Party [or the BPP; or the Panthers; or the BPP for Self-Defense]
[10] This collection of essays, written in 1965 at Folsom State Prison by the one-time Minister of Information for
the Black Panthers, includes three love letters to and from its author’s lawyer Beverly Axelrod.
ANSWER: Soul on Ice
16. Answer the following about the early 20th-century Viennese writer Jakob Wassermann, for 10 points each.
[10] In his novel My Marriage, Wassermann fictionalized himself as a writer named Alexander with this last name.
A divorced Jewish intellectual with this last name writes letters he never sends in a Saul Bellow novel.
ANSWER: Herzog [or Alexander Herzog; or Moses Herzog]
[10] Wassermann may be most famous for a book about this young man, who appeared mysteriously on the streets
of Nuremberg in 1828 claiming to have spent his entire life in a dungeon. His “enigma” titles a Werner Herzog film.
ANSWER: Kaspar Hauser [or Kaspar Hauser]
[10] Wassermann also contributed to this satirical Munich-based weekly. Founded by Albert Langen, it took its
name from a 17th-century work of German literature and featured many caricatures in an Art Nouveau style by
Theodor Heine.
ANSWER: Simplicissimus
17. Answer the following about painters claimed to be the creator of the first abstract painting, for 10 points each.
[10] One candidate is this Russian artist of the 1911 painting Composition V, who also wrote Concerning the
Spiritual in Art.
ANSWER: Wassily Kandinsky
[10] The title has also been claimed for this French painter’s 1909 painting Caoutchouc, although it looks a little bit
like a bowl of fruit. This richest member of the Dadaists published 391 Magazine and painted a set of turning gears
in Machine Turn Quickly.
ANSWER: Francis Picabia
[10] Swedish artist Hilma af Klint started moving away from figuration in 1906 with her “Paintings for the Temple”
series. Her esoteric spiritual inspirations are investigated by Maureen in this Olivier Assayas film, which stars
Kristen Stewart as a woman seeking contact with her dead brother.
ANSWER: Personal Shopper
18. Spheroidal mineral grains called chondrules are found in an iron-poor stony class of these objects called
chondrites. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these pieces of debris from outer space that survive an impact with Earth.
ANSWER: meteorites [do not accept or prompt on “meteors” or “meteoroids”]
[10] The area containing the remnants of a meteorite fall is given this name. The impact that generated the
Australasian one of these regions may have caused the Brunhes–Matuyama reversal.
ANSWER: strewn fields [or Australasian strewn field]
[10] Almost all L-chondrites date to the time of this event, suggesting that this event may have been triggered by an
instability of the L-chondrite parent body. This event generated the brachiopod-rich assemblage in Jack Sepkoski's
concept of evolutionary fauna.
ANSWER: Ordovician radiation [or Great Ordovician Biodiversification Event; or GOBE]
19. The Gao Kinglist records fourteen kings from this dynasty, including Kusoy, who converted to Islam in 1010
CE, and its mythical first ruler who came from Yemen and settled at the town of Kukiya. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this early dynasty, from which Sunni Ali and the Songhai people descended. An indigenous people of
western Niger is still named for being descended from this Dynasty.
ANSWER: Za Dynasty [or Zuwa Dynasty] (the Zarna are the people meaning “descended from the Za”)
[10] Although Sonni Ali was briefly succeeded by his son Baru, the Songhai Kingdom was soon taken over by this
great Islamic ruler, who restored the Timbuktu scholars.
ANSWER: Askia Muhammad I Ture [or Askia the Great]
[10] Born Diego de Guevara, this eunuch was captured as a child by the Saadi Dynasty of Morocco and then sent
with a small army of musketeers to massacre the Songhai kingdom at Tondibi.
ANSWER: Judar Pasha
20. A decade after this character’s death, the narrator looks into a tiny sphere and simultaneously sees her tangled
hair, her growing cancer, and her rotting bones. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this woman loved by the narrator of “The Aleph.” A publishing house named after this character has
published novels like How I Became a Nun and An Episode In The Life of a Landscape Painter.
ANSWER: Beatriz Viterbo [accept either underlined part]
[10] The aforementioned novels were written by Cesar Aira, a novelist from this country. The publisher and
character Beatriz Viterbo are also from this country.
ANSWER: Argentina
[10] In a Cesar Aira novel titled after one of these events, a fictionalized version of the author tries to conquer the
world with an army of Carlos Fuentes clones. The largest one of these events in North America is held annually by
an organization abbreviated AWP.
ANSWER: a literary conference [accept similar answers, like a writer’s conference; prompt on conference]
[10]